# Juqbox.jl Documentation

## Contents
```@contents
Pages = ["contents.md"]
Depth = 3
```
## Building and testing
These are interim build instructions while `Juqbox` resides in a repository on LC-bitbucket.
In the following we assume that the Juqbox.jl folder is in the path `~/src/Juqbox.jl`.
- `shell> cd ~/src/Juqbox.jl`
- `shell> julia`
- `julia> ]`
- `(Juqbox) pkg> precompile`
- `(Juqbox) pkg> test`
- ... all tests should pass ...
- `(Juqbox) pkg> <DEL>`
- `julia> exit()`

## Examples

The work flow for solving a quantum optimal control problem consists of the following general steps:
1. Specify the problem
2. Optimize
3. Visualize the results


### 1. Specifying the problem
The setup phase includes specifying
- The size of the state vector
- The system and control Hamiltonians
- The target gate transformation
- Duration of the gate and number of time steps for integrating Schroedinger's equation.
For the parameterization the control functions, you need to specify
- Carrier wave frequencies
- Number of B-spline coefficients in each spline

These properties are stored in a `mutable struct` that is populated by calling `params = Juqbox.objparams()`.

The next steps are:
- Assign the initial parameter vector (called `pcof0` in the examples below)
- Set bounds for the parameter vector to be imposed during the optimization
- Allocate working arrays by calling `wa = Juqbox.Working_arrays()`
- Assign convergence criteria and other parameters for the optimizer
- Build the optimization structure by calling `prob = Juqbox.setup_ipopt_problem()`

Examples of the setup procedure can be found in the scripts in the `Juqbox.jl/examples` directory.
The examples are invoked by, e.g.
- `include("cnot1-setup.jl")`
The following cases are included:
- `rabi-setup.jl` Pi-pulse (X-gate) for a qubit, i.e. a Rabi oscillator.
- `cnot1-setup.jl` CNOT gate for a single qudit with 4 essential and 2 guard levels. 
- `flux-setup.jl` CNOT gate for single qubit with a flux-tuning control Hamiltonian.
- `cnot2-setup.jl` CNOT gate for a pair of coupled qubits with guard levels.
- `cnot3-setup.jl` Cross-resonance CNOT gate for a pair of qubits that are coupled by a cavity resonator.
**Note:** This case reads an optimized solution from file.

### 2. Optimization
Once you have been assigned the `params` and `prob` objects, as well as the initial parameter vector 
`pcof0`, the optimizer is invoked by
- `pcof = Juqbox.run_optimizer(prob, pcof0 [, jld2_filename])`

### 3. Visualizing the results
General properties of the optimized solution such as trace infidelity and unitary accuracy can be evaluated, 
and a number of figures can generated by invoking
- `include("plot-results.jl")`
This script can be found in the `examples` directory. The figures are shown using, e.g. 
- `display(pl1)`
where `pl1` is a Julia plot object. The following plot objects are populated by the script: 
- `pconv` Convergence of the optimization
- `pl0` Coefficients of the optimized parameter vector
- `pl1` Evolution of the state vector population
- `pl2` Control functions in the rotating frame of reference
- `pl3` Population of the forbidden energy levels
- `pl4` Lab frame control function(s)
- `pl5` Fourier transform of the lab-frame control functions (linear scale)
- `pl6` Fourier transform of the lab-frame control functions (log scale)


## Exported types

The following types are exported and available by `using Juqbox`.
```@autodocs
Modules = [Juqbox]
Order = [:type]
```

## Exported functions

The following methods (functions) are exported and available by `using Juqbox`.
```@autodocs
Modules = [Juqbox]
Order = [:function]
```

## Index
```@index
Modules = [Juqbox]
```



